In the Movie Kill Bill, Bill the antagonist is presented as a perfect mirror image of the heroine the Bride. Not only is Bill the Bride's lover, father figure, and father of her child, he can also be seen as a male version of her. They are perfectly matched and ultimately she only defeats him in the end because she has one thing he doesn't have: the The Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique.

Shared characteristics between the two can be listed as such: The Bride is a mother, bill is a father; The Bride is a samurai, bill is also a smaurai; Bill is a cowboy, the Bride is a cowboy; Lastly, the bride is a bitch, and Bill is a bastard. Almost anything not strictly gender specific that can be said about bill can usually also be said about the Bride and Visa versa. Bill never knew his father and constantly sought mentoship from various badasses, as does the Bride in her quest for revenge. We never learn anything about her parents, but we do know she is mentored as warrior by at minimum: Bill, Hanzo, and Pai Mei. Near the end of the second movie, she has to meet the closest thing Bill ever had to a REAL father in order to find him, and in doing so is patronized by him, making him symbolically her father as well.

It is only after completing this journy, having learned all of bill's techniques, can they fight on even terms. In fact the biggest difference is that the bride learned one final technique from Pai Mei while Bill did not. Despite hating blonde women, Pai Mei chose her not bill as his one true disciple. We'll never know the reasons why, but the master ultimately chose to give her something he would never give to Bill or anybody else. And only that one gift is enough to shift the balance of power in the Bride's favor. Perhaps somehow he knew only she was fit to kill the rest of his disciples. (his art is the kind of which only one can master at a time, very sith lord)

As above, so below. The DVAS can also be seen as facets of the blond assassin who's name begins with B. 

Once again, we start with motherhood. Bill is a father, and the bride is a mother. Copperhead is also a mother, to progress, the Bride must defeat her in the realm of motherhood. They fight in an idealized suburban living room and place the well being of a child over their fighting. The Bride kills Bill's motherhood and in doing so claims motherhood for herself (Remember Pai Mei saying he owns the Bride's arm because he has the power to break it). It could even be said that Copperhead loses this fight because she choses to bring a gun into it, and thus endager her child to save her own life, thus ceding motherhood. On the other hand, By killing Nikki's mother, the Bride metaphoricly becomes Nikki's new mother. She is now the most important woman in Nikki's life. Nikki won't see the Bride again until Kill bill 3, but she'll be carrying the image of the woman who killed her mother for the next 15-20 years (untill Kill bill 3 comes out).

Next is a battle in the realm of swords, and arguably the most iconic part of the film. This fight actualy happens before the fight with Coperhead, but the first two fights are deliberately shown out of order. Before we can see the Bride as an invincible sword maiden we need to see her as a vengeful mother. Naturally this is backwards, normally motherhood is what happens when you put your sword away. But the tragedy of the Bride's wedding is so fundamental that it has to be the first scene in the movie, and because we see the Bride first as a Bride, we need to learn that she is a mother before we learn what she did before that.

Speaking of motherhood. It's important to notice that while the Bride doesn't get to experience the birth of her own child, she does experience childbirth near the beginning of both episodes. Both times she is giving birth to herself. First in the Pussy wagon (seriously) when she's trying to lift herself inside and teach herself to walk again (she's even wearing a hospital gown) The second happens near the start of the second episode when she has to escape from the Coffin. She crawls out of mother earth and is re-born once again. Perhaps that's why the Bride wins. Man can die, but woman, through the act of childbirth, becomes immortal? She's her own daughter coming back to avenge the death of her mother at the hands of her father. Bill can kill her many times over, but she only has to kill him once.

Once the Bride's motherhood is established, we get to see her as the invincible warrior maiden she was before. Because she's an honorable warrior, she will confront each of her enemies on their own terms. This means getting an awesome sword, killing all of Cottonmouth's henchmen, and then challenging her to a duel in the snow. Again, a father figure gives her the weapon she needs to accomplish this task in this way. It wouldn't be right to kill Cottonmouth through underhanded means, and probably wouldn't have worked anyways. The Bride realizes this when she tries and fails to sneak up on her enemy, and ends up chosing to attack head on in one of the bloodiest scenes in movie history.

Sidewinder on the other hand is not a samurai, but a cowboy. He isn't a graceful warrior maiden, he's a sorry old man filled with regrets trying to get rid of his past. Cottonmouth was capable of doing anything she wanted to, but Sidewinder has already done everything and wishes he hadn't. As the Bride confronts him on his terms, we are afforded a look at the past through these regrets. This is the first time we get to see Bill as anything other than a sneering villain, and the first time we see the Bride fail at just about anything. She's a samurai not a cowboy, and Hanzo's sword is only worth 250$ dollars in El Paso. Rocksalt does the same job much better. Of course Sidewinder does a half assed job of burring his regrets, and the Bride emerges from the grave once again. In doing so she also gains the ability to be scene by the audience as something other than a heartless engine of destruction. Only after Sidewinder's death does her portral start to become more sympathetic.

Ironically, and perhaps because of this attempt at atonement, Sidewinder is not killed by the Bride, but by a literal Black Mamba. He can defeat the person she's become, but he is ultimately destroyed by the image of what she was. California Mountain Snake on the other hand knows his weakness, and unlike the bride she has no qualms about striking where it hurts the most. What a Bitch.

With the other three DVAS down, It's time for the two blonde bitches to fight. As bitches, they fight in the most un-glamorous way possible. All of the Bride's elegance is thrown out the window as she lowers herself to her enemy's level. They unload with everything they have and hit where it hurts. California Mountain Snake reveals that she killed the Bride's master. (MWahahaha!) And the Bride strikes back by claiming her other eye. 

Intrestingly, she also doesn't kill her, and there are two possible reasons why. The members of the DVAS that the Bride personally kills were the ones she was closest to. She can kill them precisely because having to kill them is so horrible, and the closer she was to them, the more polite the death is. Cottonmouth and Bill were the ones she liked the most, so their duels are the most honorable.This girl on the other hand isn't worth killing. Death is too good for this bitch, (She's just a cheap knock of of the Bride, and she doesn't even have any cool fighting skills, just poison, lame) the only punishment good enough for her is being forced to live.

Having taken the power of each of the DVAS, the Bride is now ready to Kill Bill. She's become a Mother, a Samurai, a Cowboy, and a Bitch. Everything Bill has she's taken for her own. Or so she thinks. Surprise! her daughter is still alive. She may have taken motherhood from Copperhead, but Bill has taken it from the Bride. Before they can fight on even terms, the Bride has to spend some time with her daughter to bring herself back up to his level.

Because they are both Samurai, they have to have a proper duel. But because they are both Bitches, this dual might not be very clean. And because they both are cowboys filled with regret, they need to apologize before they can kill each other. They are evenly matched, or so Bill thinks.  She has The Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique. It's the most powerful technique in all of martial arts, and Bill Lacks it. This is a movie about 5 assassins, but bill only has the power of four. He's killed by what he foolishly gave away, what he thought he didn't need anymore. He was wrong, and the Bride claims him as well. With the rest all dead, she has re-united the DVAS and (symbolicly at least) undid the violence commited against her. It wasn't easy, and in the process she's broken much more than she's fixed (Maybe it was better that the most powerful group of assassins had disbanded?) but she's earned at least 15-20 years of peace with her daugther. At lesat until Nikki comes of age and begins her own personal journy of revenge.
